# Stelligent's Minimum Viable Engineer

The goal of Stelligent U is to prepare all of our engineers for their first
engagements as Stelligent consultants through practical, hands-on experience.
Any topic or principal presented here is part of our technical knowledge
baseline: this is what we consider a _Minimum Viable Engineer_.

What do we mean by that?

Stelligent is a consulting company and our core expertise is DevOps automation
in AWS. Let's start by applying the phrase "minimum viable engineer" at face
value. We're talking about a software professional with the baseline amount of
skill we're willing to put in front of a client. We can expand on that, though.
We wanted to establish a number of key characteristics that build towards some
core ideas. What are the best components of who we are? How can we ensure that
our clients consistently experience excellence? How can we maintain our core
ideals over the long term? These questions led us to some essential
characteristics we thought we’d build into our program:

1. A course of material that can be improved and updated over time. Putting all
   of our training into a clearly-defined program lets us iterate on it. Ideally,
   that means we’re always making it better, too. Let’s apply continuous
   improvement everywhere we can!

1. Readily reproducible. Any of our experienced engineers should be able to
   teach the program. Although not everyone is naturally a good teacher, we’ve
   found that the same traits and skills make both good teachers and good
   consultants, and they’re the same qualities that we hire for.

1. A consistent onboarding journey. We want to make sure everyone gets the best
   new-hire experience we can give them, and consistency of delivery is a
   fundamental part of that. This carries forward into consistency with our
   clients, as well, and builds a reliable foundation of excellence for the work
   we provide to companies.

1. Reproducing our technical and cultural DNA. If we want to keep our core
   identity over time, there are some fundamentals we want to ensure everybody
   has: strength in AWS, skill with common DevOps tooling, and insight into our
   foundational DevOps principles & techniques.

1. A clear technical threshold. As much as we believe in the people we’ve just
   hired, they’re unproven. Which leads us to...

1. A promise of quality to the sales, management, and engineering staff. The
   program gives individuals a chance to prove to themselves and others that
   they meet our bar before we ask them to do the same in front of clients.

To get all of that value, we pored over our common technological challenges and
sought deep within our engineer hearts to find all the core ideas and skills
that meant the most to us. We selected twelve essential AWS technologies that we
wanted every one of our engineers to have multifaceted experience with. Nobody
leaves our training program before they've got their hands dirty with
CloudFormation, S3, IAM, VPCs, EC2, Auto Scaling, Load Balancing, CloudWatch
Logs, Lambda, KMS, Parameter Store, and CodePipeline. If they've done
everything, they'll have diverse experience with each of those, exercising
CloudFormation, the awscli, and perhaps the API in each AWS service.

Reducing AWS to a set of essentials is not easy, and we left a lot of important
technologies out. We just couldn't fit it all in, though, and this is what we
decided we absolutely couldn't spare. As it is, the program takes a number of
weeks to work through. We've continued to add new modules to the initial core
dozen. Our engineers come back to them as "continuous learning modules" when
they're ready to learn a new technology.

## Graduating from Stelligent U

This hands-on technical curriculum is part of our new engineer onboarding
program. Because of that, we apply the notion of "graduating" from Stelligent U.
Graduating symbolizes a number of important things to us, and it marks a solid
transition point for any new engineer.

At the simplest level, providing a curriculum and asking new hires to complete
it gives them a goal. Once it's completed, our new engineers can mark a valuable
moment of success here. We all get to celebrate with them, and we love doing it
publicly at our weekly all-hands, "Sharing is Caring", so that we can all give
them some well-deserved kudos for completing the hard work. It's also a nice
feel-good moment that helps reintroduce a new face to the group shortly after
they were welcomed on their first week.

Achieving that goal does a few more valuable things. It builds the engineer's
confidence that they can succeed in their new environment. Because it's
something we've established as our core technical identity, it also helps them
internalize that they really do fit in here. It should work against that little
voice behind imposter syndrome. It's not easy making the transition from
internal engineering to consulting engineering, and it can be scary. If you can
finish Stelligent U, you're absolutely qualified to be an engineer here and
speak for the company when you talk to clients!

Graduating establishes another important thing: it communicates internally, to
the rest of the company, that the engineer is ready to speak for us. The folks
on the sales team know with confidence they've got another qualified engineer
ready to go. The managers know they have a strong performer who can hit the
ground running on their projects. The other engineers know the new person will
be able to hold up their end if they get teamed up. Honestly, we don't really
even think about it later. We know the people here are qualified -- day to day,
it's a safe assumption that our coworkers are going to be awesome.
